Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Quartz
Engineering Manager,
Haroon Sheikh.
Welcome to the last day of WWDC.
It's almost over.
We've got a really important
session for you today.
It's really going to be important if
you're using QuickDraw on Mac OS X.
So if you haven't heard already,
let me go right to the point.
We are officially deprecating QuickDraw
and we are replacing it with Quartz 2D.
Now, QuickDraw has served us quite
well for the last 20 plus years.
It has been instrumental in
the GUI revolution in the 80s.
It was really innovative for its time.
It introduced many interesting
ideas and features such as regions,
patterns.
We introduced PIX with it,
with the display manager.
We introduced seamless
multi-monitor support.
And with Color QuickDraw,
we actually introduced a
seamless transition to color.
One of the other important
things with QuickDraw was that
it was fast and efficient.
But unfortunately, it is no longer a
competitive 2D graphics API.
And our applications,
our users expect a really rich
graphics API on the platform.
And so some of the things that are
missing from it are Bezier curve support,
alpha support, built-in color management.
We've got color sync,
but it's not built in.
It's not thread safe.
Some of the assumptions
that QuickDraw was built on,
or some of the design
goals that it was built on,
are now starting to show up as
limitations in your application.
So the coordinate system is
limited to 16-bit integers.
The resolution itself
is limited to 72 DPI.
and going forward with resolution
independence in the future,
that's going to become a
real bottleneck for us.
And one of the signs that it is no
longer competitive is you'll notice
that applications are using QuickDraw
as nothing more than a blit engine
because they've got their own graphics
engine doing their own rendering and
at the end of it they just end up using
QuickDraw for blitting to the screen.
In our development of Mac OS X and
bringing QuickDraw over to Mac OS X,
Since Jaguar, Panther, we've noticed,
you know,
we've been fixing bugs inside of
QuickDraw for a particular application.
But just fixing that one bug would end up
breaking potentially other applications.
So we recognize that QuickDraw
has now become fragile.
And for us,
maintaining binary compatibility
with your applications has become
quite a bit of a challenge.
So even though bug fixing
is a problem for us,
we can't really add some of the
features that I talked about earlier
on the previous slide into QuickDraw.
So we really can't extend it anymore.
And we've decided we're no
longer going to be working on it.
We may fix a bug here or there,
but there's no active development on it
in terms of adding new features to it.
So it's no longer feature-proof,
implying that we'll no longer integrate
it with new features in the system.
It will continue to
function the way it is,
as you've expected to,
but it will not be integrated with the
rest of the new innovative technologies.
On the Converse side,
you've got Quartz 2D,
where it is a very rich graphics API.
It is based on an
industry-proven imaging model.
By design, it is actually resolution
and device independent.
And we've got built-in support for alpha,
alpha channels on images.
And for rector art,
we've got transparency
support and alpha there also.
It is designed to be thread safe.
It has a really rich feature set.
I list many of those things.
And if you've been at any of the Quartz
2D sessions this year or in past WWDCs,
you know what I'm talking about.
And it also has a floating
point coordinate system.
It integrates very well
with other technologies.
For example, we've got ColorSync's color
management built into Quartz 2D.
And this year with Core Image,
you can actually take advantage
of Core Image with Quartz 2D.
It's directly integrated
with that new technology.
Quartz 2D is also now, you know,
hardware accelerated
through Quartz Extreme.
And all of these points
come up with one conclusion.
This is the API that you want to be using
if you want to be feature compatible.
So I just want to show you this graph.
You may have seen it
in the previous WWDCs.
But the concept here,
I just want to get one
major point out of this.
The numbers are not necessarily accurate,
but they are there to give
you a particular point.
And that is,
you want to be on the Quartz curve
and not on the QuickDraw curve.
QuickDraw is deprecated.
You want to showcase your application on
Mac OS X by taking advantage of Quartz.
And that's really where, if you don't,
your competitor probably will.
So what does it mean for you?
This deprecation concept.
It means that we will
maintain binary compatibility,
so we're not actually removing
the QuickDraw library from
the platform in Tiger yet.
I'm not sure when we'll
make that decision,
but it's definitely not for Tiger.
If you are building for
Tiger as your build target,
you'll start getting warnings.
That's just to help you to know
which APIs you need to move off of.
and at some future stage we will
also consider removing the headers
so you won't actually be able to
build using the QuickDraw headers.
Now what is being deprecated?
It's the headers that I list here.
The main important one
is really QuickDraw.h.
All of the APIs in them
are being deprecated.
At previous WWDCs,
we've actually talked about adopting
Quartz in your Carbon application,
and we've talked about a
piecemeal or incremental approach,
take pieces out of your rendering
and replace QuickDraw calls with
Core graphics or Quartz 2D calls.
But going forward,
that's no longer an optimal solution.
And so this year,
we're actually asking you
to fully adopt Quartz 2D.
And you want to leverage that in
all aspects of your graphics usage,
be it for display, printing,
metafile generation, PDF generation.
Many applications out there
are architected on Quickdraw,
and some of the limitations
inside of Quickdraw may also
show up in your architecture.
So what we would like you to do is,
if that is the case,
think of the new features
that the Quartz provides,
or Quartz 2D provides,
and re-architect your application
with Quartz 2D in mind.
Take some time in your design cycle for
the next version of your application,
and really understand
what you need to do,
because it's not necessarily
an easy transition.
And to that end,
we're also moving all of our
internal code over to Quartz already.
Now, as I mentioned earlier,
Quartz 2D is being hardware
accelerated through Quartz Xtreme,
but QuickDraw is not being
hardware accelerated in Tiger.
The main point here is if you end up
using QuickDraw in your application,
that window where you end up
drawing to with QuickDraw,
it will no longer be accelerated.
And the reason for that is QuickDraw,
not being accelerated,
has to draw through the CPU.
And for us,
what that means is you have to pull
the window back and store back from
the VRAM over to system memory.
You start drawing into
it through QuickDraw.
We don't want to go ping
pong back and forth,
accelerate, decelerate, accelerate,
decelerate.
So our policy is that as soon
as you end up using QuickDraw,
we will decelerate you.
Because just that ping ponging itself
is actually going to be much more
of a performance issue than it is.
and any hardware acceleration
that you might benefit from.
So Quartz 2D is accelerated
through Quartz Extreme,
and you want to enable it.
It's currently not enabled
in your build at WWDC.
Enable it through Quartz Debug.
It's a familiar tool for those who
are already working with Quartz.
In general,
it also has all sorts of other
performance features that you
can use to determine what are the
bottlenecks in your application.
But enable it through Quartz Debug.
And there's another feature in here,
which is the show window list that will
list all the windows in the system.
And those windows which are accelerated
will be color coded as green.
So you can find out whether your window
is actually being accelerated or not,
where it is in terms of what the
window server thinks it is doing,
or what the Quartz
compositor has decided,
whether it's on the graphics card in
terms of it being accelerated or not.
Now as you start making this transition,
you'll come to the conclusion that
these are two different imaging models,
if you haven't already.
QuickDraw is fundamentally pixel-based,
whereas Quartz 2D was designed to be
resolution and device independent.
So as a result, Quartz 2D is not going to
be a superset of QuickDraw.
So there are going to be
features in QuickDraw,
and primarily those are pixel-based
manipulation utilities that are not
going to be provided through QuickDraw.
So as you start making these transitions,
you'll come to the conclusion that
these are two different imaging models,
if you haven't already.
QuickDraw is fundamentally pixel-based,
whereas Quartz 2D was designed to be
resolution and device independent.
So as you start making these transitions,
you'll come to the conclusion that
these are two different imaging models,
if you haven't already.
In some cases,
we may add similar features.
For example,
the transfer modes in QuickDraw.
We've got PDF blend modes
inside of Quartz 2D.
They don't match one to one,
but you could probably use
some of them if necessary.
You may want to also re-evaluate
the usage of those APIs.
A perfect example that
comes out is XR drawing.
Yes, we've got a transfer mode for it,
but if you look at Mac OS X,
many applications can get
away without XR drawing.
And you want to re-evaluate and think
differently in terms of how you want
to use that API that you're used to,
but how you could do that
equivalent thing in Quartz 2D.
And so in some of those cases,
we've decided the OS is no longer
going to be providing those
APIs as a system level service.
We realize the transition is not easy,
so we've done quite a
bit of things for Tiger.
Specifically,
we've added many new APIs in
Tiger in the Quartz 2D API,
and those are focused primarily
for people who are going to
be moving over from Quartz,
from QuickDraw to Quartz 2D.
A common complaint has
been the documentation.
So we've improved the
documentation significantly.
We've got the drawing
with Quartz2D document.
We've got the reference document.
Those have been updated.
Plus we've got this new document,
which is the transitioning to Quartz2D.
It's a new series of articles.
You should have access to them already.
There'll be many more coming.
It's going to mimic the
contents of this session,
and we'll go into more detail
about some of the problems that you
will run into in this transition.
We've got new sample code.
We'll have more sample code available,
maybe even technos,
depending on what problems people come
up with and what the solutions are.
We've got a Quartz step mailing list.
If you're not on it,
it's a great list to be on because
you've got other Carbon developers and
other Quartz 2D developers who can help
answer questions and we've also got some
of the engineers on our team that are
helping out with those questions also.
And right after the session,
we've got the Graphics and
Media Lab where you can
drop by until 5:00 PM today.
And we will be there to
answer questions for you.
So we'll do the Q&A.
But after that,
we can also move to the Graphics
and Media Lab and focus in on
specific questions that you may have.
And finally,
we actually need your feedback.
We've tried hard to make this transition
easy or fill in some of the holes.
But as you move your application
over and you recognize problems
in your application-- are
you missing a functionality?
Let us know.
There's many ways that you can do that.
And I've listed the mailing list,
contacts that we'll list at the end.
But let us know.
It's a really good opportunity
for you to try it out and
help us ease your transition.
There are a few other technologies that
are being deprecated that we're not going
to be talking about in this session,
but I wanted to list them here.
The Display Manager and Draw Sprockets
are being deprecated also.
And for those two technologies,
what you want to do is use
the Quartz display services.
Those technologies were actually built
on top of the Quartz display services,
so now you should actually
go directly to that.
It's a better API for you to be using.
And QuickDraw Text is
also being deprecated.
It was discussed in another
session earlier this week,
so we won't talk about it.
And from this point,
I'll actually like to
bring up Joseph Maurer,
our QuickDraw expert,
who can actually help you see
the common problems and help
you move over to Quartz 2D.
So, there you go.
Thank you, Haroon.
They deprecated my nickname.
But it's okay.
I actually like it.
Feels like a promotion.
I still should let you know that
where I come from we say Quartz.
So don't laugh if my pronunciation
of Quartz is not as you
hear it all over the place.
From now on, each time you read about,
hear about, learn about Quartz,
you will think of me in
the way I say Quartz.
You know,
I had to learn this new word this year.
Deprecated.
looked it up in the dictionary,
comes from Latin, "deprecare."
And it means to ward off by prayer.
I'm not making this up.
You can Google it for yourself.
So can you picture Haroon and
Peter Graffagnino praying to defend
themselves against the evil of QuickDraw?
talking about evil.
You are a wonderful audience.
You fit, you are the perfect
audience for this afternoon.
You are,
I assume you are a Carbon developer,
so you can relate to
the quote in the title.
I assume you know QuickDraw,
so I don't have to explain
anything about it anymore.
I assume you know enough about
Quartz that I don't have to
explain much about it either.
And of course you want to transition
your graphics programming to Quartz.
Yeah?
Okay.
I know there is some
obstacle to overcome.
You need to let loose of
some sentimental attachment.
And I know what I'm talking about.
I've been sentimentally
attached for 21 years.
See, over the last weeks or so,
sometimes I felt like standing
out there on the corner,
the Ansa Mariani, in the morning,
watching all the fellow
Apple employees drive by to work.
And I was there with
my big sign that read,
hunk, if you like QuickDraw.
Well, with the exception of two or three
bodies from the QuickTime group,
nobody honked.
So I brought my own hunking device.
QuickDraw, QuickDraw.
It's Friday afternoon after all, huh?
I don't have a musical
instrument for Quartz.
Quartz doesn't need,
it would have to be something big,
you know, shiny and splendid.
I'm thinking of a trombone.
No way I could fit
this in my cargo pants.
Quartz has something else.
Quartz has Tailwind.
Tailwind is a new technology.
and as somebody who
likes to ride a bicycle,
I can tell you that Tailwind
is a very good thing.
All of us know, however,
that in order to take
advantage of Tailwind,
you need to go in the right direction.
So I invite you to come along with
me and we make a big turn and we
turn into the right direction.
We go to transition.
They told me it would work.
Yeah.
[Transcript missing]
Take the first three bullet
items as introduction,
as things we need to think about
before we even get started.
And then,
thinking about the program here,
I thought I would isolate two concepts
that need more discussion in depth,
region handles and copy bits.
Then I regroup some more
issues and concerns.
At the end,
think about pictures versus PDF or
performance or this color space thing
and everything that's new there.
And I even have examples and demos.
Why don't we start with sample code?
Then I regroup some more
issues and concerns.
At the end,
think about pictures versus PDF or
performance or this color space thing
and everything that's new there.
And I even have examples and demos.
Why don't we start with sample code?
Many of you may remember from
three or four years ago CarbonDraw,
which was the first proof of concept.
You actually can call Quartz
APIs from a Carbon application.
This time, it's the real thing.
There is no QuickDraw at all.
It can be done.
You don't use XOR for drag
selection and matching answer,
whatever.
You use overlay windows.
Hit testing, there is no point in region.
We don't need it.
There are other ways around it,
and the sample code shows it.
We have copy-pasting, PDF data,
the generic color space usage,
and some more.
And it's available,
I didn't find it today, this morning yet,
but it should come up anytime real soon.
And it's there to grow.
I think I want to demo it now.
So it's your regular drawing application,
nothing spectacular.
You draw lines, move them around.
Now each time you do hit testing,
you use a one pixel bitmap context
that you transform appropriately.
You can scale the drawing.
and HitTesting also
works in the scaled way.
What's going on behind the scenes is
there is one generic transform that
transforms from document coordinates in
the list of shapes to the window content.
Now I'm emphasizing this because
if ever you get your hands
on the copy that's uploaded,
this might not work.
I fixed the bug just over last weekend.
And I will later come back,
remind me to talk about this bug.
It's helpful.
And of course you do set
fill colors or whatever.
No, I meant full blue.
And I mentioned before that it does take
advantage of built-in color matching.
I don't know if you can see this.
If you look closely,
this digital color meter tells us that
the real color I'm pointing at here
is not the blue that we set.
It has got an additional
red component in there.
I don't know why.
The color thing people can explain you.
But that's just a demonstration
that color matching works,
is there, is alive.
And of course, on top of it,
color matching wouldn't make much
sense without calibrating to begin
with and with projectors and so on.
It's just something to point out.
I said we have copy and paste.
Before we can save as a PDF file,
that's no big surprise.
[Transcript missing]
I don't know how we made
it work just before.
Okay.
What if I open a new project?
PDF we just created, now it's in preview.
And I close Carbon, sketch a new window.
And here I ask preview
to copy this stuff.
In two.
Oh, here we go.
So this should have worked before.
This is one of those miracles in demos.
I don't know.
Oh, actually I do.
[Transcript missing]
In case you want to know too,
there are two different copies
of preview on this machine.
And the copy that works best for
this demo is the one from Panther.
So now I'm back in Carbon Sketch,
I can do whatever I want,
like our QuickDraw rounded rectangle.
Let's make it half transparent or so.
And now I go back and say,
I want to copy this whole page
in my Carbon Sketch thing.
and if this is the right copy of preview,
then I can say new from
clipboard and here it is.
I have a new PDF that
has our drawing added.
I don't know what I forgot now to
show about this Carbon sketch thing.
The interesting part for you should be,
I'm in the following referring to it
and inviting you to take the code,
the source code,
Copy-paste from there those things
that you better copy-paste from
somewhere where they already work.
And then toy around and
make experiences with...
Getting some experience with
Quartz drawing yourself.
So we can go on with the slides.
Now we get into the meat.
Haroon has already pointed
out all the differences.
I don't need to repeat all the details,
but
In this slide, you should start with
reading the last line.
The last line says,
don't try to translate the usual
QuickDraw idioms that we got used to
over so many years into Quartz as is,
because the differences are just too big.
In this slide, you should start with
reading the last line.
The last line says,
don't try to translate the usual
QuickDraw idioms that we got used to
over so many years into Quartz as is,
because the differences are just too big.
This comes twice.
It comes next to the changes
of coordinate systems.
and the current transformation matrix
and it comes with clipping and it would
have to do with all other calls that you
make in Quartz to change the behavior
of the stroking and filling operations,
the colors and many other
settings and details.
In QuickDraw,
we had the model that the state was
mainly preserved in the graph port.
We could have accesses and
then get and set the values.
In Quartz, the model is different.
Everything is combined in
this opaque graphic state,
which you can push and pull back.
You save it on the stack and
you restore it from the stack.
This makes for a nice bracketing
thinking in all your drawing.
And after the first couple
hours when you get used to it,
you really like it.
It's a much better approach to
keep your drawing code clean.
And we have to come
back to that more often.
Now coordinates, the CTM,
the current transformation
matrix and transforms.
This gives us an extra slide.
I remember when I encountered
QuickDraw and the first time saw a
coordinate system where by default
the vertical coordinate went top down.
I found it odd.
It took me a while to get used to it.
I didn't really like it.
Of course, all of us,
we learned very rapidly that
this was the convenient way of
addressing pixels in a window.
It's natural.
It follows the order of the system.
It's in memory and it has so many
other benefits because we are used
for resizing windows to resize from
the bottom right and the top left.
The content stays
anchored to the top left.
So this was the right thing.
And over the years,
we got completely brainwashed into
believing that coordinate systems
have to go vertically top down.
Well, now they are again back
up in Quartz by default.
But...
There is this general model whereby the
CTM can be changed to whatever you want.
Not that you will get everything right,
right away.
It often requires some experimentation
or some additional thinking.
But it gives you the power to,
for example,
flip the coordinate system and
shift it such that you can continue
working as you did in your mental
model of the QuickDraw coordinates.
And HIViews, they do have their
origin at the top left.
They have set up the CG context that
you get back in your draw control
event such that you can just use this.
They have had good reasons
to set it up that way.
Still, it's one of those obstacles on
the way to transition to Quartz,
and I should point this out that
you should not be surprised to
spend some extra time just figuring
out where the coordinates go and
converting back and forth between a
window position that vertically you
have to count from top down in the
QuickDraw model or the HIV model,
and that in the default Quartz model,
you have to introduce
the height of the window.
The current height so you can subtract
it and get the distance from the bottom.
And this is a joke, math is hard.
Math is not hard.
It's just hard to get everything
right when you use these transforms.
I referred to it when I showed you
the hit testing in Carbon Sketch,
and I said there was this bug.
I didn't notice because I hadn't
tested hit testing under scaling up.
Or when I tested it,
it just happened to work by accident.
And then I noticed that it didn't work.
And it tracked it down to the following.
There is a one pixel bitmap
context which I set up.
And once you click in
the window at some point,
I move it to this point.
And then I redraw the whole content of
the window and check whether this point
in this bitmap context has been touched.
Very easy.
I set it to zero before and
afterwards if it has been touched,
it won't be zero anymore.
Well, the problem was I applied-- and
in order to draw window content,
of course, I always have to
concatenate this generic,
affine transform that
converts from the document,
document, the document coordinates to
the window content coordinates,
depending on the position of
the scroll bars and so on.
Tricky part was I got the order wrong.
I applied this transform and shifted
the bitmap context to where it belongs.
Well, this is the wrong order.
First I have to shift there
and then apply the transform.
It doesn't matter if you don't scale,
but as soon as you scale,
the transforms are not...
It depends on the order.
So this is just an example.
of the type of obstacle you
are likely to encounter.
This is a very generic slide just
to tell you in order to get started.
The CG context is more or less
something in parallel to a graph port.
We need something to draw into
nearly all the Quartz APIs.
Take a CG context as first parameter.
And the question is,
where do we get it from in our first
examples of experimentation with it?
Well,
you have learned over this week and for
two years already that the direction
for Carbon developers in the HI toolbox
is to adopt the HI view architecture.
And there you draw in this K event
control draw event and the event record
brings you the CG context ready set up,
clipped with the coordinates
as you like it and so on.
So that's the most convenient solution,
the most convenient
answer to the question.
For everybody else, in the meantime...
You have the window port coming back from
get window port and you fill it into the
QDBeginCGContext call and this gives you
the CG context as you have always had.
This context,
each time you make this call,
is a default context.
It's a fresh reset context as if
you created it from scratch new.
But of course,
now that we promise not to use any
QuickDraw in our window drawing,
we do it just once at the beginning,
and then it's always our context.
I mentioned the bitmap context in the
case of using a one pixel wide bitmap
context for this hit testing business.
And we created PDF data in Carbon Sketch,
so we need to create a PDF context.
The equivalent in QuickDraw
was to call open picture,
then do some drawing that gets recorded,
and say close picture to
get back the picture handle.
Well, in Quartz,
we just draw into a PDF context.
And for printing, well,
this bracket of begin-cig context
and end-cig context works.
David Gelbman here has done everything
that needed to be done for that.
But preferably,
it's better to let the printing
system know right away that
we only use Quartz drawing.
And up to Tiger, it was a little bit,
I found it unintuitive how to do it.
I couldn't figure it out by myself,
had to go back to David and ask him.
And so in Tiger,
we get something that's much
more clean and intuitive.
And before Tiger,
you go to Carbon Sketch and copy-paste
it out there for your printing.
So, the first major chapter,
what do we do with all
those region handles?
You have heard probably some references
to region handles being bad in the
HIToolbox presentations already.
One thing is a given,
there are no region handles in Quartz.
Regions in QuickDraw are being
used either as very general shapes
that can be drawn and filled
and painted and what have you,
or they are used as masks.
For example,
its last parameter in a copy bits call,
a mask region handle.
When moving to Quartz,
these two different usages are
being addressed by different ways.
The generic shape,
very naturally in Quartz,
is described by its contours, so a path.
And for masks,
Quartz has the alpha channel.
The question is, how do we put this in?
I will come back to that.
And the other bullet points are going
to have their own slides as well,
so we just flip over.
The major,
the first time a QuickDraw developer
encounters regions probably
is to clip as a clip region,
set the clip to something.
And in QuickDraw, these functions,
clip to the rectangle or set the clip,
of course, replace whatever was there
as previous clip in the port.
Whereas in Quartz,
the corresponding called CG context
clip that takes implicitly the
current path intersects with
whatever the previous clip was.
The first time I learned about
this from my new co-workers
when I joined the group,
I said, huh, I don't like this.
Well, of course,
it's easy to get used to it.
And again, once more,
CG context save G-State,
then you clip to what you need,
and you come back with the
closing bracket restore G-State.
And so you're always
in a clean situation.
Still,
in the first hours of experimentation
with Quartz 3D... If you are like me,
sometimes your drawing won't show up.
The first reason is you've
got the coordinates wrong.
The second reason could be that you
clipped and that your drawing is
away from what you want to clip out.
And then, so I was wondering,
how can I debug this?
How can I determine if this is the case?
And there is this call that
I just wanted to point out.
CG context get clip bounding box.
This helps in most cases.
Because there is no way to get
the current clip back as a path.
And while we're at it,
here's another hint.
I discovered this only during
development of CarbonSketch.
I needed to clip the drawing
to the portion of the window
content outside of other controls.
The scroll bars and this
pop-up for the scale.
So I said, well,
nothing easier than that.
You just take the path for the
whole window content rectangle
and then you subtract the paths
that describe the contour of
the scroll bars and the pop-ups.
Problem is,
the CG context clip uses the winding
number rule to determine what's
inside and outside of the area.
Which means,
as the little arrows should indicate,
the rectangle that gets subtracted
from the area should have the
opposite orientation in the contour.
Now that's a little annoying when
you have to write the code because
you have to write at least four
lines instead of just one line
to add the rectangle to the path.
Unfortunately then,
I learned that there was the
CG context even-odd clip.
And so now you can just add
the rectangles as they come,
and the even-odd rule does the right
things and you can clip as you want.
Here's another subject.
If you never bothered about understanding
really what happened in begin update
and end update when you redraw your
window in response to an update event,
you don't have to listen now and
come back for the next slide.
The story is that
Originally, in the Mac Inters toolbox,
there was this concept of
invalidating little regions in
the area that needed updating,
and by the time you got
called with an update event,
You didn't have to bother clipping your
drawing to whatever needed to be redrawn.
It happened behind the scenes,
automatically.
The HI Toolbox keeps track of
whatever needs to be redrawn.
It keeps track of the update region.
And this trick with begin
update used the visual region,
this region in the graph port,
to achieve this.
Because Quickdraw obviously
has to clip to all this.
Now, if you carry this model over,
just to fix the ideas,
assume the window content
is mirrored in a G-World.
And what you are doing is you update
the little areas in the G-World as
the need comes up in your application.
And then each time you need to refresh,
every so often you just blast
with a big copy of it the
whole G-World onto the screen.
And you rely on the benefit that
automatically this big copy,
every little bit of operation
is clipped out to what really
needs to be transferred.
If you would do this in
the same way with Quartz,
then you might have a bad experience,
performance-wise,
because this begin update mechanism,
Quartz doesn't know anything about it.
There is no visual region in the
port and it just doesn't come in.
So each time you would redraw the whole
content and that's not what you want.
Well, of course, HIV use,
they address this.
As soon as you adopt HIV use, again,
you don't have to worry about anything
at all anymore in this matter.
And in other cases,
it's one of those examples where...
We need to rethink the approach
and replace existing code or
the existing model by some
optimizations for this purpose.
Now we come to regions as masks.
Here is the
Traditional QuickDraw
model to create a mask.
You copy bits into a one-bit off-screen,
and if you're not happy with the way
colors get mapped to black or white,
you put in a search proc,
and you get precisely the region
that you want to obtain as a mask
when you call bitmap to region.
That's not how you can do it in Quartz.
And to begin with,
masks are by design meant
to be in the alpha channel.
So how do you get these mask
bits into the alpha channel?
It all depends, of course,
on what your specific application and
your specific goals and needs are there.
If it's something that you can
do ahead of time and then store,
the proposition is just
do it once and for all,
keep the alpha mask up to
date with what you want,
and you have a picture
that you can use as is,
and no need for mask region
handles at all anymore.
The other proposal is to
tinker around with the pixels
directly in a bitmap context.
The bitmap context gives
you the base address,
gives you the row bytes,
and you can basically work with it as you
are used to with the pixels in a G-World,
in a Pixmap.
This is not really a
satisfactory answer either,
I know.
And that's why for Tiger,
the API has been extended
in this perspective.
And now you can call CGImage,
create with mask, and CGContext,
clip to mask, and in both cases the
mask is a deep mask.
So this should help.
Hit testing,
I mentioned it several times already.
Often QuickDraw would set up the region
where it wants the point to compare
against if it's contained or not.
But the trick with drawing the
content and clipping it to the point
where you want to check whether this
point gets drawn has been around
since the beginning of QuickDraw.
It was one of the first tricks
that I learned back in 84.
So it's still good.
And as long as in Quartz we don't have
the CG path contains point for a G-matrix
solution and some accompanying utility
functions there to make this useful,
really,
and it's there starting with Tiger only,
you would have to look at the way
CarbonSketch does hit testing.
Now would be a good time for a break.
We are switching to a new chapter,
but Travis is scared,
so I better continue.
We are going to copy bits.
I think some of you came to us long
ago already when QuickDraw and Quartz
were opposed and compared and when
you were invited to embrace Quartz.
And one of the first reactions was,
what do I do with all my copy bits calls?
There is no copy bits in Quartz.
Really, there is CG context draw
image and it will have to do.
That's all we have got.
Originally,
the general functionality is not there.
And for good reasons, again,
if you think about the fundamental
differences in the imaging model.
So the first comment is,
maybe you don't need so many copy
bits calls anymore to begin with.
For one,
very often the usage of copy bits out
from off-screen keywords and so on was
to work around the fact on System 9,
on pre-System 10,
that Windows were not buffered and
just wanted to avoid flickering.
We wanted to composite things
one by one before they could
be brought to the screen.
Well, now with more experience about
how everything works on X,
in many cases,
we have still code that is not necessary.
We can use the compositing feature
in the Windows to our advantage and
throw away much code and many keywords.
ImageRefs also,
they stay around if you leave
them around and if you learn
about the rules of using them,
they are much more convenient.
You don't have to set up and
juggle around with so many
offscreens in general anymore.
But in principle it's true,
the tandem of a G-World with the
copy bits in terms of a cached
content to be brought to display
corresponds to a CG bitmap context and
a corresponding CG context draw image.
There's a link in between,
you need to set up a data
provider for the image.
It's not really as easy as it could be.
It takes probably more than
half an hour to really learn it,
how to use it the first time.
And there are still some restrictions.
We should never forget that
here the source pixels of
an ImageRef are immutable.
You cannot change them
once you have this.
You can, but you might not be
happy with the results.
And there are some other
missing conveniences,
at least up to Tiger.
Now we can create an image
with a sub-rectangle.
And if you have been on Tuesday at
the session where all the new Quartz
features have been introduced,
then this is just a way of
repeating it and hammering it in.
The image can be created
directly from the bitmap context,
no intermediate tinkering around
with data providers anymore.
And for Tiger,
because of the motivation and the needs
that came up with hardware acceleration,
a new concept, the CG layer ref,
that is particularly favorable
to cache drawing that then
gets brought to the screen.
The missing transfer modes,
Haroon has mentioned it.
We don't have a precise
equivalent for the arithmetic
transfer modes and everything,
but there are new features,
new facilities,
new possibilities in the PDF blend modes,
again starting with Tiger.
And also, because going forward and
inviting all you Carbon developers
to transition to Quartz,
we are going to cooperate
much closer with HIToolbox and
make all this blend together.
And one of the functions that's there,
for example,
is HIView create off-screen image.
In many cases,
you need to have your view and keep
the content as is in an image ready.
So there it is.
Oh, yeah.
Progressing nicely.
Picts.
QuickDraw had Picts.
Quartz has PDF.
It really doesn't make sense to
hang on to the picts when you
move your drawing to Quartz.
And as I brought up here
in the second bullet point,
we need to start
supporting copy and paste.
Only the PDF format really
captures all the details,
all the finesse of Quartz drawing.
There is, has been,
the call QDPickDraw to CG Context.
It draws a pict into a CG context,
whatever the CG context is.
Well, this code has to convert,
has to translate from the QuickDraw
drawing model into the PDF drawing model.
And that's potentially a lot of work,
which means it might be a performance
problem if you call this many
times with many pictures and so on.
In this case,
the workaround we recommend is, well,
just draw it into a PDF context,
hang on to the PDF data,
and use those from then on.
And one step further,
if you have hundreds of pictures,
I know it's not trivial,
but consider moving them
over in the same process.
In particular, if you know that...
As in the last line,
that the picture that came out compressed
from Photoshop actually is just a wrapper
around JPEG data that get decompressed
by QuickTime through a QuickTime opcode.
Think about all the machinery that
has to be put in place to get through.
It really doesn't make sense
anymore when you approach the Quartz
API where you have CG image create
with JPEG data provider right away.
So just keep them,
the JPEG data themselves.
Before there is this line that says
some pictures don't convert well.
Of course,
we know they don't print well either.
There are some of them are still around
and you need to convert them anyway.
Probably the trick is to just draw
them into a PIX map and then create a
new picture that's just plain pixels.
So back to the copy-paste business.
I hate bringing up
source code on a slide.
This is just a list of some of the calls.
They're all a little
bit lengthy in spelling.
You have to set up the PDF context
to draw your content that has
to go on the pasteboard into
it to capture the PDF data,
and then you can bring them up.
And the other comment is there
is this com.adobe.pdf literal.
Finally, in Tiger,
we get the symbolic constant for that.
It's not too early in
the universal types.
and pasting is a little bit longer
too than this just single call.
The recommendation is,
that's why it's there, CarbonSketch,
look at it and go through and
probably you can copy paste
a lot of the source code,
but please start adopting
copying and pasting PDF data.
We need to get there.
Another chapter in the story of
transition into Quartz is color spaces.
You start coding with the Quartz API,
don't know yet how many calls
are there and which calls are
there and what you have to do.
You set the bitmap context and you
look through the parameters that
you need to provide and suddenly
you need to provide a color space.
We didn't have color spaces in QuickDraw,
we don't know what it is,
so we look at the file color space dot
h and we search for a way to get the
color space to plug it in as parameter.
And my first
The solution was to just grab the
CG Color Space Create Device RGB because
it was the simplest one and
it sounded plausible enough
that that's what I wanted.
And then comes one day
David Gelfman again and says,
oh, don't do that.
I will show you,
I will give you all the code.
That's how you have to do
it to use generic RGB color.
And remember when I showed you
the blue pixel that actually,
by the time it got to the screen,
was slightly modified with some
other component added in to
do the right color matching?
You get it for free.
And because in such an application
we would copy-paste content with
colors or save to a PDF file,
we are really interested in getting
the correct colors all over the place.
So that's the model,
that's the recommendation.
Unfortunately, again,
we had to wait until Tiger to
get the real easy call that gives
us this generic color space.
Before,
it required several lines of code,
which I haven't brought up here.
No point.
I invite you to look at it
in Carbon Sketch and to just
copy-paste it out again,
and then you get the generic color
space for all your RGB needs.
Um, yeah, there's this last point,
and we have had some
discussions about it.
Of course,
color matching takes CPU cycles,
and there are situations when you
cannot afford it or when you really
are hurting because of this fact.
In some extreme cases,
you only go to display,
you only have some specific needs.
We are not really perfectly
well prepared for the situation,
and that's why we promised a
tech note sometime soon that
addresses all these questions.
to bring in this new
concept of color spaces.
Probably I should have also pointed
out that as it's written on the slide,
for Tiger the behavior is bound to
change the behavior of device RGB.
The device RGB color space
So you're going to get different behavior
between Pantheon and Tiger if you
already use the device RGB color space.
From Tiger on,
it's likely to be color matched.
So in summary...
There is stuff that gets left on
the way during this transition.
Those infamous QuickDraw transfer modes,
all 173 of them,
or I don't know how many.
Well, we cannot pixel by pixel reproduce
everything that QuickDraw did.
It just doesn't make sense.
Time goes on.
And as you can see on the
user interface of Mac OS X,
all those applications that
don't use any QuickDraw,
you can't live without those.
It looks different.
We have new ways of selecting,
of drag-selecting something by using
a grayish transparent overlay window,
for example, if you like that.
And if not, in Carbon Sketch,
I still use the marching ants
frame for drag selection.
With overlay windows,
it's really nice how you can achieve
effects which would have been extremely
difficult to reproduce in QuickDraw.
If you remember playing around in
Carbon Sketch and creating objects
and... resizing them and so on,
it looks pretty good by taking
advantage of overlay windows,
which you could conceivably even stack
for special purposes and special needs,
and using transparency when you're
drawing into the overlay window so you
can still compare with what's underneath.
And then we have this PDF blend modes.
I haven't looked closer
at them myself yet.
We will see what we can do.
The possibilities are richer than
whatever we had known in QuickDraw.
The Graphport has this bottleneck
Prox Concept and every QuickDraw
developer was proud when he first hooked
in there and achieved special effects.
and we got used to it.
They are not there anymore,
there are no bottlenecks in Quartz.
In Tiger,
we have this new feature of being
able to scan and get called back
for each opcode in a content stream,
a PDF content stream.
This is in... it's not equivalent,
it's much richer.
It depends all on what you try to achieve
when you're hooked in the bottlenecks.
In most cases you don't need to begin
with anymore in the Quartz drawing model.
But if you really want to get very
close control of everything that's going
on drawing-wise in your application,
that's the way to go.
And as Haroon pointed out, some pieces,
they are lost forever.
In exchange, I thought I should point
out how much you win.
Again, so that's a little bit
of propaganda thing,
but just right after the
downer of what you are losing.
There's so much more excitement
in this new graphics model.
You can do things that would
have been extremely difficult
to achieve them in QuickDraw.
And you can see how often we refer to
Tiger with new APIs that are there to
make the transition easy and comfortable.
We have finally a lot
of new documentation,
we have the new sample code,
more is to come,
and I'm personally ambitious to make
Carbon Sketch into something that
should respond to all your questions.
So bring the feedback,
bring the requests, bring the criticisms.
Performance, of course,
has been an issue from the beginning.
If you set out and set up a
Performance, of course,
has been an issue from the beginning.
If you set out and set up a
You will find still today cases
where Quartz is slower and
sometimes quite substantially.
On the other hand,
if you measure your time in
your application percentage-wise
of the whole processing time,
which percentage is used for drawing,
for display,
and which percentage is used for
everything else in the system.
And if it turns out that you spend about
10% of your processor time in drawing,
then you can put it in perspective.
It's in many cases where you think it's,
the performance is a problem,
it actually isn't.
And then there are cases where it is.
And I will come back to
that in a couple of minutes.
So the message here, which we repeat,
QuickDraw is an obstacle
against hardware acceleration.
And we want to take advantage
of it in the future as it comes.
So QuickDraw really isn't a good
citizen anymore on the system.
And then there are some
other recommendations.
I don't even need to comment on them.
You know, I just copied them over
from the documentation that
we have about performance.
And the concept of CG layers
in particular bears repeating.
It's something new,
and we want to just emphasize
it that for the future,
that's really something to--
Look at.
Yeah, here's the time when I come back
to the performance question.
Can we flip to the demo machine, please?
I think most of you have seen
it already over this week,
and I'm entitled to show it once more,
one last time.
Some of you may remember who
have been here two years ago
that I showed it two years ago.
These are 88,000 line segments.
They come from
Jean-Paul Armand,
developer of CAD program.
He had trouble on Mac OS X with
QuickDraw because QuickDraw line drawing
was so much slower than on Mac OS 9.
So two years ago for Jaguar,
I compared what you can do and
explained what you can do to make
it competitive with Mac OS 9.
And I was proud of it.
And nowadays,
it's just pathetic if you flip
to software rendering in Quartz.
You might ask, why didn't I show Quartz
2D two years ago already?
Well,
because two years ago it wasn't so fast.
It was still slower than QuickDraw.
And this is only progress that has been
made within Quartz in software rendering.
And you probably have seen
the hardware rendering case.
And it becomes, it's not even funny.
I mentioned some other things.
Again, I think two years ago I had
something similar to this.
[Transcript missing]
The way I set this up is I install
a timer and measure the time
that's used for actual drawing.
And then everything else,
so here in this case,
drawing time in the system
is 7.5%. With Quartz,
what if I do QuickDraw?
It's 7.7%. And of course it would
fluctuate if we would repeat.
So this is nearly the same,
it's practically the same.
Why?
Because this is just
copy bits on QuickDraw,
and on the Quartz side, it's just
CgContext Draw Image because I set
up this image ref with the pixels
from the off-screen G-World.
Copy bits in QuickDraw as often as it can
just passes the job off to Core Graphics
and it ends up resizing the same code.
So no wonder they are
about the same performance.
Then I tried to bump up
The percentage of drawing time.
Each frame I just repeat it.
I repeat it to saturate the machine
such that it gets more work to do.
And you notice it gets already slower.
It's already suffering a little bit.
The priorities in scheduling kick in.
And I could bring it up to
about 90% and then the system
refuses to let me take more CPU.
So I get 16 repetitions per frame,
drawing time between 50 and
60%. If now I flip to Quartz--
55%. The behavior is
not always reproducible.
What I meant to show
was that in many cases,
and maybe I just went too far,
it turns out that
Drawing time in Quartz becomes
more favorable as you put
more load on the machine.
Well, as it happens,
it's just not so spectacular
anymore now in this case.
which means I don't have to
explain or to comment about it.
And then comes another case,
again which is purely artificial.
It goes back to this idea that you do
a big copy bits from your off screen,
but you clip out only little areas.
What I'm doing here is,
it's the same model as
in the bull's eye before,
but I'm clipping each one to
the nine little rectangles.
And in between each frame,
I change the content of
these nine little rectangles.
The idea is that you say you have
some window content that reflects
some hardware input in real time and
you want to display how it changes.
So that's how you would
do it in QuickDraw.
You have this off screen,
you twiggle around whatever
needs to be updated,
you do one big copy bits call
to bring it back on screen.
And same thing,
I wanted to see how this compares
with using Quartz and QuickDraw.
And it turns out that Quartz
looks a little bit unfavorable
in comparison to QuickDraw.
And maybe this was the case
which I remembered where bumping
up the repetitions suddenly
made Quartz look much better.
See?
Quartz takes 9% drawing
time by 16 repetitions.
QuickDraw takes nearly twice as much.
So here we can comment about
what's going on and how come that
as soon as you put more load,
more graphics load on the system,
Quartz starts looking better.
The previous example probably
was just too trivial.
There wasn't much to be gained.
And here it turns out that internally
the architecture of Quartz,
the way it's designed and
implemented is just so much
more advanced than QuickDraw,
which is tied to a
design that had to match,
that corresponded to hardware
reality of more than 20 years ago.
I think I should stop at this time.
Let's go back to the slides once more,
please.
I come to the conclusions.
Of course, it's not trivial.
Of course, it will take work.
And we need to learn something new,
and we need to rethink certain things.
I feel it's a good thing.
I feel rejuvenated since
I started learning something new.
Maybe this can entice
some of you as well.
And above all,
it's really the right thing to do.
Think about the tailwind.
It's good karma.
Trust me.
and I'm repeating what Haroon offered.
We are here to help.
In particular myself,
who has a background in
developer technical support.
Long ago, I just cannot help it.
So, see you in the lab afterwards.
I will be there together
with the other members of the
group and we want to help you,
bring you over to Quartz.
Travis Brown is the man to
talk to with everything,
bring all your feedback,
all your requests.
As I mentioned,
we are proud of all the new
documentation we have now.
You will find everything down
from the reference library,
graphics and imaging.
There is sample code and
unfortunately I don't have the
precise path to Carbon Sketch,
but Carbon Sketch is not alone and we
are working on making it richer and
we have the Quartz dev mailing list.